---
layout: post
title:      "Project Branches"
date:       2018-08-14 13:10:42 -0400
permalink:  project_branches
---


When I first started working on my Sinatra Porfolio Project, I didn't have much of a problem. My project aims to be a service for laundromat owners, where they can receive requests for pickup from customers, and take on those requests as orders. I created two models that seemed obvious: users, and orders. My first idea for the project didn't include requests at all. I had wanted to fit everything into the orders object, and I soon realized that it was not going to be sustainable. There would be too much code, and the order model would essentially be doing two things at once, which I did not like. Instead of the user sending an order to the laundromat and the laundromat editing the order to fill in other info (like weight/price), I decided to create a request object instead. Now, things made more sense: users sends requests to the laundromat, and the laundromat creates an order based off of that request! Now my project was branching out. There was a lot of interaction between the user and the laundromat, and now I wish I had moved the laundromat(which I made as a user with admin privileges) into another seperate model entirely. Towards the end of the project, there were so many redirects, and views, and controller actions, and tabs open, that I sometimes forgot what I was working on and had to dumble through the code to see where I last left off. Creating branches is something that I definietly could have utilizes to better organize my coding, so that I can quickly check what branch I'm on and see what my current goal is. My commits also could have been improved in frequency. Often, I had written so many different features that I wasn't sure what to write in the commit message. This feeling of being lost in code is something that I want to work on in the future, and I believe making branches and making more frequent commits will help improve my experience in the upcoming projects.
